This project focuses on building a Flask web application on Raspberry Pi for remote control of home devices. 
To make this project possible, I attached my Raspberry Pi to a breadboard in order to attach hardware components such as an infrared (IR) receiver and transmitter, 
a photoresistor (to detect the light level in the room) and a DHT11 (to measure the temperature and humidity levels on the room). 
After having studied the National Electrical Code (NEC) protocol, I was able to reverse-engineer the protocol to develop a C code that would decode and store IR signals from my LED and humidifier remotes. As for the rest of the project, I implemented all the functionalities with Flask and coded it in Python. With the IR transmitter previously, I was able to transmit the IR signals without the need of a remote, which allowed me to used it with my LED light and humidifer. On the web app, the user would be able to turn on/off the LED and change its colours, as well as turning on/off the humidifier. With the temperature and humidity sensor, the user would be able to view the temperature and humidity on the home page. The user could also record test trials where it would measure the temperature and humidiy at 10 second intervals until the user stopped the trial. I implemented SQLite to store the trial data and present it to the user. I created a Trial table (to store the trial ID, date and description) and a Measurement table (to store the measurement ID, time, temperature and humidity) in SQLite. The Measurement table had a foreign key (trialID) that stored the trial number in order to connect it to the Trial table. Finally, I used Thread logic when running functinalities in the background. This includes the light sensor that would detect the light level every 5 seconds. If the room went dark, it would automatically turn on the LED light, and if the room is lit, it would turn off the LED light. Similarly, the other fuctionality involved measuring the temperature and humidity levels every 30 seconds to display it on the home screen. Finally, the last Thread functionality was involved when the user would run a temperature and humidity test trial. I had a thread running in the background where it would measure the temperature and humidity while the trial is running, then pause the thread once the trial is stopped. An thread event flag was used to pause and continue the thread.
